# Add Choreo-Managed Databases and Caches to the Marketplace

When you create a Choreo-managed database or cache, you can add it to the Marketplace, making it available for consumption through a connection.

!!! note 
     To add a Choreo-managed database or cache to the Marketplace, you must register at least one credential for it.

## Step 1: Register credentials

To register credentials, you can either use the default super admin credentials or the credentials you create using the super admin credentials. When you create a database or cache server, super admin credentials are generated by default. You can use these super admin credentials to create new user credentials. The steps to create new user credentials depend on the type of database or cache you are using.

You can use the registered credentials to create a connection. During connection setup, you must select credentials for each database from the list of available credentials.

To register credentials for a database, follow these steps:

1. Sign in to the [Choreo Console](https://console.choreo.dev/).
2. Go to the Choreo Console header and select your organization from the **Organization** list.
3. In the left navigation menu, click **Dependencies** and then click **Databases**.
4. Click on a required database to view its details.
5. Click the **Databases** tab.
6. Click to expand the database for which you want to register credentials, then click **Add Credentials**.
7. In the **Add Credentials** dialog, do one of the following depending on your requirements:

    - Select **Add New Credentials** and specify the following:
         - A display name for the credentials.
         - The database credentials you created to use when setting up database connections in Choreo. 
         - The environment where you want to use the credentials. 
         
         The steps to create new user credentials depend on the type of database or cache you are using. In general, you must log in to your database server as the super admin using a command-line interface or a database management tool. Then, create new database users with the required permission levels.

    - Select **Add Super Admin Credentials** and specify the following:
         - A display name for the credentials. 
         - The environment where you want to use the credentials.

8. Click **Save**.

!!! tip 
     Choreo allows you to delete registered credentials to prevent their use when establishing new connections. However, deleting credentials will not affect any existing database connections that are already using them.

## Step 2: Add the database or cache to the Marketplace

- On the **Databases** tab, click **+Add to Marketplace** corresponding to the database you want to add. 

Once the database is added to the Marketplace, it can be consumed via a connection. For details on creating a connection to a Choreo-managed database, see [Create a connection to a database](../develop-components/sharing-and-reusing/create-a-connection.md).

!!! note 
     To remove a database or cache that you added to the Marketplace, click the corresponding **Remove from Marketplace**. This action prevents new connections to the removed database, but existing connections remain unaffected.

For details on using a database connection in your component, see [Use a Database Connection in Your Component](../develop-components/sharing-and-reusing/use-a-database-connection-in-your-component.md).
